mid.md, before:



![plot of disk usage](disk-usage.svg)

## Documentation

### Using the corpora

Accessing the nlp-corpora requires UW CSE department server access (e.g., to
the machines `{recycle,bicycle,tricycle}@cs.washington.edu`) so that they can
view the department filesystem. The nlp-corpora directory is located on the
department filesystem at `/projects/nlp-corpora/`. Anyone with a UW CSE account
can log onto the department servers and view the files there. (For those
without a UW CSE account, see the [restricted access
section](#restricted-access).)

The corpora are read-only (this is enforced by our crawler) so that they stay
in a known, clean state. To work with files from the corpora, please copy them
to a local directory, e.g., with `scp`.

### Corpus structure

One of the goals of this project is to have a consistent directory structure
across all of the corpora we track to give a smooth experience browsing through
them. There is a detailed description of this structure [below](#corpus-structure).

### Adding a new corpus

Fill out this
[form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1SBPXlJ8zsE1kbVr6csE3d9XIaW9pCfvOkmH9kD6vEv8/viewform)
and we will work with you to add a new corpus to the repository.

### Restricted access

Some corpora require signing a form and sending it to the authoring institution
to be cleared for access. To honor these requests, we restrict access to
corpora for which this is required by narrowing the unix group that has read
privileges.

Detailed instructions for each corpus are linked to in the table below.

Commit message:

improve wording of access outside uw cse link, and restricted access section.

mid.md, after:



![plot of disk usage](disk-usage.svg)

## Documentation

### Using the corpora

Accessing the nlp-corpora requires UW CSE department server access (e.g., to
the machines `{recycle,bicycle,tricycle}@cs.washington.edu`) so that they can
view the department filesystem. The nlp-corpora directory is located on the
department filesystem at `/projects/nlp-corpora/`. Anyone with a UW CSE account
can log onto the department servers and view the files there. (For those
without a UW CSE account, see the [access outside UW CSE
section](#access-outside-uw-cse).)

The corpora are read-only (this is enforced by our crawler) so that they stay
in a known, clean state. To work with files from the corpora, please copy them
to a local directory, e.g., with `scp`.

### Corpus structure

One of the goals of this project is to have a consistent directory structure
across all of the corpora we track to give a smooth experience browsing through
them. There is a detailed description of this structure [below](#corpus-structure).

### Adding a new corpus

Fill out this
[form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1SBPXlJ8zsE1kbVr6csE3d9XIaW9pCfvOkmH9kD6vEv8/viewform)
and we will work with you to add a new corpus to the repository.

### Restricted access

Some corpora require signing a form and sending it to the authoring institution
to be cleared for access. Others simply have highly restrictive licenses we
must comply with; we do so by ensuring each users reads the agreement we signed
when purchasing the corpus.

To honor these contracts, we restrict access to certain corpora by narrowing
the unix group that has read privileges. For such corpora, regrettably, you
must jump through a hoop to use them.

Detailed instructions for gaining access to each restricted access corpus are
linked to in the table below.
